# aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate
* An Elastic Fabric Adapter is an AWS Elastic Network Adapter (ENA) with added capabilities. The EFA lets you apply the scale, flexibility, and elasticity of the AWS Cloud to tightly-coupled HPC apps. It is ideal for tightly coupled app as it uses the Message Passing Interface (MPI).
* On-Demand Capacity Reservations enable you to reserve compute capacity for your Amazon EC2 instances in a specific Availability Zone for any duration. This gives you the ability to create and manage Capacity Reservations independently from the billing discounts offered by Savings Plans or Regional Reserved Instances.
* Amazon FSx for Windows file server supports DFS namespaces and DFS replication. This is the best solution for replacing the on-premises infrastructure.
* The AWS Storage Gateway Hardware Appliance is a physical, standalone, validated server configuration for on-premises deployments. It comes pre-loaded with Storage Gateway software, and provides all the required CPU, memory, network, and SSD cache resources for creating and configuring File Gateway, Volume Gateway, or Tape Gateway.
* AWS recommend using separate queues when you need to provide prioritization of work. The logic can then be implemented at the application layer to prioritize the queue for the paid photos over the queue for the free photos.
* AWS Global Accelerator uses the vast, congestion-free AWS global network to route TCP and UDP traffic to a healthy application endpoint in the closest AWS Region to the user.
This means it will intelligently route traffic to the closest point of presence (reducing latency). Seamless failover is ensured as AWS Global Accelerator uses anycast IP address which means the IP does not change when failing over between regions so there are no issues with client caches having incorrect entries that need to expire.
* With Amazon CloudFront you can set the price class to determine where in the world the content will be cached.
* You cannot create an encrypted Read Replica from an unencrypted master DB instance. You also cannot enable encryption after launch time for the master DB instance. Therefore, you must create a new master DB by taking a snapshot of the existing DB, encrypting it, and then creating the new DB from the snapshot. You can then create the encrypted cross-region Read Replica of the master DB.
* A custom origin can point to an on-premises server and CloudFront is able to cache content for dynamic websites. CloudFront can provide performance optimizations for custom origins even if they are running on on-premises servers.
* Amazon RDS creates an SSL certificate and installs the certificate on the DB instance when Amazon RDS provisions the instance. These certificates are signed by a certificate authority. The SSL certificate includes the DB instance endpoint as the Common Name (CN) for the SSL certificate to guard against spoofing attacks. You can download a root certificate from AWS that works for all Regions or you can download Region-specific intermediate certificates.
* To apply the restrictions across multiple member accounts you must use a Service Control Policy (SCP) in the AWS Organization.
* General Purpose SSD (gp2) volumes offer cost-effective storage that is ideal for a broad range of workloads. These volumes deliver single-digit millisecond latencies and the ability to burst to 3,000 IOPS for extended periods of time.
* You can set up CloudFront with origin failover for scenarios that require high availability. To get started, you create an origin group with two origins: a primary and a secondary. If the primary origin is unavailable or returns specific HTTP response status codes that indicate a failure, CloudFront automatically switches to the secondary origin.
* When you hibernate an instance, Amazon EC2 signals the operating system to perform hibernation (suspend-to-disk). Hibernation saves the contents from the instance memory (RAM) to your Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) root volume. Amazon EC2 persists the instance's EBS root volume and any attached EBS data volumes.
* The most reliable and time-efficient solution that keeps the data secure is to use AWS DataSync and synchronize the data from the NAS device directly to Amazon S3. This should take place over an AWS Direct Connect connection to ensure reliability, speed, and security.
* AWS physical Snowball Edge device will provide much more inbuilt compute and storage. This negates the need to rely on a stable connection.
* AWS DataSync can be used to move large amounts of data online between on-premises storage and Amazon S3 or Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS). DataSync eliminates or automatically handles many of these tasks, including scripting copy jobs, scheduling and monitoring transfers, validating data, and optimizing network utilization.
* Though there is no minimum duration when storing data in S3 Standard, you cannot transition to Standard IA within 30 days.
* AWS PrivateLink provides private connectivity between virtual private clouds (VPCs), supported AWS services, and your on-premises networks without exposing your traffic to the public internet.
* The most resilient solution for AWS Direct Connect (DX) is to configure DX connections at multiple DX locations. This ensures that any issues impacting a single DX location do not affect availability of the network connectivity to AWS.
* Each Snowball contains up to 80TB of usable storage.
* An instance store provides temporary block-level storage for your instance. This storage is located on disks that are physically attached to the host computer. Instance store is ideal for temporary storage of information that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, scratch data, and other temporary content, or for data that is replicated across a fleet of instances, such as a load-balanced pool of web servers.
* Accounts can be migrated between organizations. To do this you must have root or IAM access to both the member and master accounts. Resources will remain under the control of the migrated account.
* VPCs can be shared among multiple AWS accounts. Resources can then be shared amongst those accounts. However, to restrict access so that consumers cannot connect to other instances in the VPC the best solution is to use PrivateLink to create an endpoint for the application. The endpoint type will be an interface endpoint and it uses an NLB in the shared services VPC.
* Amazon FSx for Lustre is ideal for high performance computing (HPC) workloads running on Linux instances. FSx for Lustre provides a native file system interface and works as any file system does with your Linux operating system.
* The AWS Network Firewall is a managed service that makes it easy to deploy essential network protections for all your Amazon Virtual Private Clouds, and you can then use domain list rules to block HTTP or HTTPS traffic to domains identified as low-reputation, or that are known or suspected to be associated with malware or botnets.
* AWS DataSync is an online data transfer service that simplifies, automates, and accelerates copying large amounts of data between on-premises systems and AWS Storage services, as well as between AWS Storage services.
* An AWS Storage Gateway File Gateway provides your applications a file interface to seamlessly store files as objects in Amazon S3, and access them using industry standard file protocols. This removes the files from the on-premises NAS device and provides a method of directly mounting the file share for on-premises servers and clients.
* Amazon RDS Proxy is a fully managed, highly available database proxy for Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) that makes applications more scalable, more resilient to database failures, and more secure. Amazon RDS Proxy allows applications to pool and share connections established with the database, improving database efficiency and application scalability. Amazon RDS Proxy can be enabled for most applications with no code changes so this solution requires the least amount of code changes.
* Amazon FSx for Windows File Server makes it easy for you to launch and scale reliable, performant, and secure shared file storage for your applications and end users. With Amazon FSx, you can launch highly durable and available file systems that can span multiple availability zones (AZs) and can be accessed from up to thousands of compute instances using the industry-standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol.
* Amazon GuardDuty gives you access to built-in detection techniques that are developed and optimized for the cloud. The detection algorithms are maintained and continuously improved upon by AWS Security. The primary detection categories include reconnaissance, instance compromise, account compromise, and bucket compromise.
* Scheduled scaling allows you to set your own scaling schedule.
* Amazon QLDB has a built-in immutable journal that stores an accurate and sequenced entry of every data change. The journal is append-only, meaning that data can only be added to a journal, and it cannot be overwritten or deleted.
* A gateway endpoint is used for Amazon S3 and Amazon DynamoDB. You specify a gatewa
* Aurora Replicas are independent endpoints in an Aurora DB cluster, best used for scaling read operations and increasing availability. Up to 15 Aurora Replicas can be distributed across the Availability Zones that a DB cluster spans within an AWS Region.
* Service control policies (SCPs) offer central control over the maximum available permissions for all accounts in your organization, allowing you to ensure your accounts stay within your organization’s access control guidelines.
* Use CloudWatch Container Insights to collect, aggregate, and summarize metrics and logs from your containerized applications and microservices.
* Lambda@Edge is a feature of Amazon CloudFront that lets you run code closer to users of your application, which improves performance and reduces latency. Lambda@Edge runs code in response to events generated by the Amazon CloudFront.
* Amazon Route 53 health checks monitor the health and performance of your web applications, web servers, and other resources.
* AWS Lake Formation is a service that makes it easy to set up a secure data lake in days.
* A VPG is used to setup an AWS VPN which you can use in combination with Direct Connect to encrypt all data that traverses the Direct Connect link.
* Amazon Aurora Serverless is an on-demand, auto-scaling configuration for Amazon Aurora. The database automatically starts up, shuts down, and scales capacity up or down based on application needs. This is an ideal database solution for infrequently-used applications.
* With target tracking scaling policies, you select a scaling metric and set a target value. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling creates and manages the CloudWatch alarms that trigger the scaling policy and calculates the scaling adjustment based on the metric and the target value.
* 
